Add Expo source maps guide (#8854)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps/uploading/expo-advanced.mdx

---
title: Expo (Advanced)
description: "Manually upload source maps for native Expo releases."
---

> Sentry's React Native SDK works out of the box with Expo applications. To see readable stack traces in the product source maps need to be uploaded to Sentry. This guide explains how to manually upload source maps for Expo applications releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry's React Native SDK works out of the box with Expo applications. To see readable stack traces in the product, you must upload source maps to Sentry. This guide explains how to manually upload source maps for Expo application releases.
```

> If you are looking for a guide on how to automatically upload source maps for Expo applications releases or updates, please refer to the following guide:
> 
> - [How to upload source maps for Expo releases and EAS Updates](/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps/uploading/expo/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a guide on how to automatically upload source maps for Expo application releases or updates, see the [Expo](/platforms/react-native/sourcemaps/uploading/expo/) source maps docs.
```

## Prerequisities

- [Sign up for an account](https://sentry.io/signup/)
- [Set up Sentry React Native SDK](/platforms/react-native/manual-setup/expo/) version 5.16.0-alpha.4 or newer

<OrgAuthTokenNote />

<Include name="react-native-sourcemaps-expo-common-instructions.mdx" />

## Manual Upload for Hermes Release

> After the Sentry Expo Plugin and Sentry Metro plugin are added to the application configuration, generate and upload Hermes source maps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the Sentry Expo Plugin and the Sentry Metro plugin are added to the application configuration, generate and upload Hermes source maps.
```

> ### Generate bundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generate Bundle
```

> To generate a bundle and source map for the native application release use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate a bundle and source maps for the native application release, use the following command:
```

```bash {tabTitle:Android}
# --entry-file node_modules/expo-router/entry.js \
npx expo export:embed \
  --entry-file node_modules/expo/AppEntry.js \
  --platform android \
  --dev false \
  --reset-cache \
  --bundle-output index.android.bundle \
  --sourcemap-output index.android.bundle.packager.map \
  --minify false
```

```bash {tabTitle:iOS}
# --entry-file node_modules/expo-router/entry.js \
npx expo export:embed \
  --entry-file node_modules/expo/AppEntry.js \
  --platform ios \
  --dev false \
  --reset-cache \
  --bundle-output main.jsbundle \
  --sourcemap-output main.jsbundle.map \
  --minify false
```

#### Notes

> - The actual command might differ depending on the application configuration. The above commands are the default commands used by Expo.
> - Bundle and Source Map names can change the generated Debug ID.
> - For custom entry file paths the `--entry-file` parameter needs to be adjusted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The actual command might differ depending on your application configuration. The above commands are the default commands used by Expo.
- Bundle and source maps names can change the generated debug ID.
- For custom entry file paths, the `--entry-file` parameter needs to be adjusted.
```

> ### Compile bytecode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Compile Bytecode
```

> Compile Hermes bytecode bundle and source map:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compile Hermes bytecode bundle and source maps:
```

  index.android.bundle
rm -f index.android.bundle
mv index.android.bundle.hbc index.android.bundle
```

```bash {tabTitle:Android on Windows}
node_modules/react-native/sdks/hermesc/win64-bin/hermesc \
  -O -emit-binary \
  -output-source-map \
  -out=index.android.bundle.hbc \
  index.android.bundle
rm -f index.android.bundle
mv index.android.bundle.hbc index.android.bundle
```

Compose Hermes bytecode and (React Native Packager) Metro source maps:

```bash {tabTitle:Android}
node \
  node_modules/react-native/scripts/compose-source-maps.js \
  index.android.bundle.packager.map \
  index.android.bundle.hbc.map \
  -o index.android.bundle.map
node \
  node_modules/@sentry/react-native/scripts/copy-debugid.js \
  index.android.bundle.packager.map index.android.bundle.map
rm -f index.android.bundle.packager.map
```

```bash {tabTitle:iOS}
mv main.jsbundle.map main.jsbundle.packager.map
node \
  node_modules/react-native/scripts/compose-source-maps.js \
  main.jsbundle.packager.map \
  main.jsbundle.hbc.map \
  -o main.jsbundle.map
node \
  node_modules/@sentry/react-native/scripts/copy-debugid.js \
  main.jsbundle.packager.map main.jsbundle.map
rm -f main.jsbundle.packager.map
```

> ### Upload source maps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upload Source Maps
```

Make sure `sentry-cli` is configured for your project and set up your environment variables:

```bash {filename:.env}
SENTRY_ORG=___ORG_SLUG___
SENTRY_PROJECT=___PROJECT_SLUG___
SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=___ORG_AUTH_TOKEN___
```

> Upload the bundle and source map to Sentry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upload the bundle and source maps to Sentry:
```

```bash {tabTitle:Android}
npx sentry-cli sourcemaps upload \
  --debug-id-reference \
  --strip-prefix /path/to/project/root \
  index.android.bundle index.android.bundle.map
```

```bash {tabTitle:iOS}
npx sentry-cli sourcemaps upload \
  --debug-id-reference \
  --strip-prefix /path/to/project/root \
  main.jsbundle main.jsbundle.map
```

## Manual Upload for JSC Release

After the Sentry Expo Plugin and Sentry Metro plugin are added to the application configuration, generate and upload Javascript Core source maps.

> ### Generate bundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generate Bundle
```

> To generate a bundle and source map for the native application release use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate a bundle and source maps for the native application release, use the following command:
```

```bash {tabTitle:Android}
# --entry-file node_modules/expo-router/entry.js \
npx expo export:embed \
  --entry-file node_modules/expo/AppEntry.js \
  --platform android \
  --dev false \
  --reset-cache \
  --bundle-output index.android.bundle \
  --sourcemap-output index.android.bundle.map \
  --minify true
```

```bash {tabTitle:iOS}
# --entry-file node_modules/expo-router/entry.js \
npx expo export:embed \
  --entry-file node_modules/expo/AppEntry.js \
  --platform ios \
  --dev false \
  --reset-cache \
  --bundle-output main.jsbundle \
  --sourcemap-output main.jsbundle.map \
  --minify true
```

#### Notes

> - The actual command might differ depending on the application configuration. The above commands are the default commands used by Expo.
> - Bundle and Source Map names can change the generated Debug ID.
> - For custom entry file paths the `--entry-file` parameter needs to be adjusted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The actual command might differ depending on your application configuration. The above commands are the default commands used by Expo.
- Bundle and source maps names can change the generated debug ID.
- For custom entry file paths, the `--entry-file` parameter needs to be adjusted.
```

> ### Upload source maps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upload Source Maps
```
